A fast Fourier transform (FFT) is an algorithm that computes the discrete Fourier transform (DFT) of a sequence, or its inverse (IDFT). Fourier analysis converts a signal from its original domain (often time or space) to a representation in the frequency domain and vice versa. The DFT is obtained by decomposing a sequence of values into components of different frequencies.[1] This operation is useful in many fields, but computing it directly from the definition is often too slow to be practical. An FFT rapidly computes such transformations by factorizing the DFT matrix into a product of sparse (mostly zero) factors.[2] As a result, it manages to reduce the complexity of computing the DFT from {\displaystyle O\left(N^{2}\right)}{\displaystyle O\left(N^{2}\right)}, which arises if one simply applies the definition of DFT, to {\displaystyle O(N\log N)}O(N\log N), where {\displaystyle N}N is the data size. The difference in speed can be enormous, especially for long data sets where N may be in the thousands or millions. In the presence of round-off error, many FFT algorithms are much more accurate than evaluating the DFT definition directly or indirectly. There are many different FFT algorithms based on a wide range of published theories, from simple complex-number arithmetic to group theory and number theory.
A fast Fourier transform can be used in various types of signal processing. It may be useful in reading things like sound waves, or for any image-processing technologies. A fast Fourier transform can be used to solve various types of equations, or show various types of frequency activity in useful ways.
As an extremely mathematical part of both computing and electrical engineering, fast Fourier transform and the DFT are largely the province of engineers and mathematicians looking to change or develop elements of various technologies. For example, fast Fourier transform might be helpful in sound engineering, seismology or in voltage measurements.
A fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm, is an algorithm that calculates the discrete Fourier transform (DFT) of some sequence – the discrete Fourier transform is a tool to convert specific types of sequences of functions into other types of representations. Another way to explain discrete Fourier transform is that it transforms the structure of the cycle of a waveform into sine components. It uses p5.js environment to execute (https://editor.p5js.org/lautibonet/sketches/Bkee9AfxE)
